Create an RPA Center of Excellence (CoE) - Part 1
Now we've seen a basic five step RPA implementation plan and to make sure the RPA initiative is handled
well in your organization, it's important to make someone responsible for the initiative; especially
if you have any ambitions of scaling the RPA initiative within your organization.
And this is what we'll discuss in this lesson.
How do we build an RPA Center of Excellence?
That is, how do we build an internal, self-sustaining and scalable RPA expertise to run and maintain
our robots?
Well, regardless of its task, a robots essential job is to make the company vision come true.
I think of RPA as a long range capability meant to empower organizations to evolve strategically
and increase business value. To achieve this goal,
you must advise your company and assist them towards developing a Center of Excellence.
A Center of Excellence is developed by 1) building the skills and capacity you need, 2) articulating a proper
governance model (and especially for larger initiatives
this is very important)
And then finally, 3) launching the Center of Excellence and scale the RPA initiative.
So looking at the first step, how do we build the skills and capacity we need for an RPA Center of Excellence?
...
Well, at the core of your Center of Excellence lies the Robotic Operating Team.
This Team consists of a set of clearly defined roles and responsibilities, and it is charged with implementing
and managing the automation as quickly, efficiently and as safely as possible throughout the enterprise.
To build the skills and capacity you need, you'll first have to find an RPA Sponsor from the business
side, who will establish the technology as an enterprise-wide strategic priority and that will underwrite
corporate resources.
Next, you want to name an RPA Project Manager.
They will evangelize and drive RPA adoption across the organization.
The project manager is the guardian of the robotic process automation solution overall.
They are responsible with ensuring a healthy automation pipeline, while leading the operational
management for the virtual workforce.
Then you'll obviously need an RPA Developer.
They are in charge of designing, developing, testing the automation workflows and supporting the implementation
of the RPA solution.
You'll also need an RPA Infrastructure Engineer that is in charge of the infrastructure support for
server installations and troubleshooting.
And finally, you'll need and RPA Business Analyst. The RPA Business Analyst will be the process
subject matter experts located in Business Operations. They will be in charge of creating the process
definition document (PDD) and process maps used for automation in cooperation with the RPA Developer,
as well as help out on identifying processes for the automation pipeline.
So I really recommend these five key robotic roles to be appointed for any company, or especially for
a small company that wants to start its RPA initiative.
Note that these roles and responsibilities do not need to represent full-time positions. For example,
when piloting RPA,
this could be done in as little as four to eight weeks.
The RPA Sponsor would then need to secure the funding.
The RPA Project Manager would run the project spending maybe between 30 to 50% of her time on the
project.
The RPA Developer would develop, test and implement the project - and spend probably most of his time on
the project; while the RPA Infrastructure Engineer would do the necessary server application, setup and
installation, as well as helping the developer to gain the necessary user and application accesses;
usually not spending too much time on this.
The RPA Business Analyst would only be needed to create the process definition document (PDD) and answer process
specific questions from the developer.
OK. For larger organizations there are several other roles and responsibilities to consider for the
Robotic Operating Team.
First we have the RPA Solution Architect.
They are the ones who define the architecture of the RPA solution and oversee it end-to-end; assisting
both in development and in the implementation phases.
They select the appropriate set of technological tools and features and ensures the alignment of the
solution with enterprise guidelines.
Then we have the RPA Supervisor.
The RPA Supervisor will manage, orchestrate and control the virtual workforce as part of the operational
environment.
Their focus is on continuously improving robotic operational performance and resource allocation by
exploiting the advanced reporting and analytical tools that you'll find within the robotic process automation
solution that you've chosen for your company.
Then we have RPA Service Support acting as the first line of assistance for the RPA solution in
deployment in case of any issues.
And then we have the RPA Change Manager. An RPA Change Manager is essential for larger companies securing
an easy adoption of RPA within the company.
They are the ones who create the change and communication plan aligned to the deliverables of the project.
They are a catalyst in the transition process, making sure each stakeholder is well-informed and comfortably
tuned to the changes taking place.
Remember that automation can potentially lead to some people losing their job, and careful change management
is therefore very important.
So now that we have all the roles and know their responsibilities, we could put them into four categories.
The RPA Sponsor is a representative from the Management group. The RPA Project Manager, Supervisor, Developer
and Business Analyst are represented from the business side.
The RPA Solution Architect, Infrastructure Engineer and Service Support is represented from the
IT side.
And the RPA Change Manager is a representative from Human Resources.